Hello, everyone, in this video we are going to pick up right where we left off in the previous part
and click on the delete button, could we get an alert that says you clicked delete and I can try the
button down here and it does the same thing.
Excellent.
So now we can finally get to the entire point of this lesson, which is how can we communicate with
WordPress from the front end when we click this button?
How can we tell WordPress to delete a specific post?
Well, the answer has to do with the rest API.
Let me show you what I mean.
So right now, follow along with me in a new browser tab.
Go ahead and visit your home page or the root of your URL.
So in my case, fictional university dot deve.
And then remember, at the end of the you are l we can add on slash wp json, slash WP, slash V2.
And then if we wanted to get the 10 most recent blog posts we can just say posts.
Right.
And that's going to give us the raw JSON data for those blog posts or at the end of the euro we could
say pages to get that post type instead.
Or better yet, instead of pages we could say note, not notes, but just note.
And that's going to give us the ten most recent note posts.
The reason we are able to do this is because in our previous lesson back in our New Plugins folder,
remember that when we registered the note post type, we included show in rest equals true.
So this means that all of the default rest API RL behaviors are in place for the no post type.
So this you URL is going to give me the ten most recent notes.
Or if I wanted to retrieve just one specific note, I just need to know the ID number of that post.
So for example, this is JSON data for two note posts, write math lecture and biology lecture.
But you can see that the first property is IDE one thirty seven on your website.
It will have a different ID number, but if you just take note of that number and then up in your address
bar add on a slash and then type in that number.
Well now you're only going to get raw JSON data for that one specific post with that IDE now you might
be scratching your head and saying, Brad, what does this have to do with being able to delete a post?
And that's a fair question, but I think everything's going to make sense when I let you know that there
are different types of requests.
So, for example, when our Web browser visits this you that we see in the address bar, when you type
in an address and then push enter your Web browser is sending out a gett request.
We're telling the WordPress server, hey, we want to get or receive information.
However, there are other types of requests.
So, for example, if instead of wanting to retrieve information about the post with this ID, if instead
we wanted to update this post with new content and send that to the server, well, we can send a request
to this exact same Nual only instead of a request, we would send a post request.
Or better yet, if we wanted to delete the post with this ID number, we would send a request to the
same exact URL only instead of a gett or post request, we would send a delete request.
Now there are several other types of requests, but when it comes to working with the WordPress rest
API, those are the big three get request, a post request and a delete request.
Now, while it's true that if you just type in a u r l in your address bar and push enter, that's going
to send out a get request and there's not much we can do about that.
The beauty is that you and I are programmers and back in our JavaScript, it is very easy to send out
different types of requests.
So right now all we need to do within our delete note method is learn how to send a delete request to
the right API you URL.
So let's delete the test alert message.
And up until this point in the course, whenever we want it to send a request to a U.
RL from within our JavaScript, we use the query tool named Git Jason.
However, as you can see from the very name of that method, that only makes sense if you want to send
a gett request.
And right now we don't want to send a request.
We want to send a delete request.
So let's delete this and instead let's use.
A query tool named Ajax, the Ajax method is a great option when you want to be able to control what
type of request you're sending within its parentheses, let's include a pair of curly brackets to create
a JavaScript object.
And then within the curly brackets, I like to drop down to a new line and we just want to give this
Ajax method a few things.
So first we give it a property named U.
RL and let's just set it to X as a temporary placeholder.
OK, then we also give it a type and this would be what type of request you want to send.
Is it a get post or delete request?
In our case, we know that we want a delete request, so just single quotes and then all caps delete
include a comma and dropdown again.
We also want to provide a property named success and this is where we provide a function that we want
to run if the request is successful.
For now, let's just include a placeholder X and then we also give it a property named error.
And again, that's just a function that will run if the request fails.
OK, now let's go through these one by one and start replacing the X placeholders.
So first, what is the Eurail that we want to send a request to?
And that would just be a RL, very similar to this.
Now, in order to avoid having to type out your full root domain back in our code, we can delete this
placeholder X and just say university data dot root, you are L.
This is a property that we set up many lessons.
Go if you're scratching your head and you can't remember when we created this, go ahead and view the
source for the front end of your website and then press control F or command F to perform a search and
just search for university data.
And I think that will jog your memory.
Basically, this just contains the root part of our U.
RL so that our code can be flexible here.
And after that root part of our domain, let's add on and then quotes and let's say slash WP, JSON,
slash WP, slash V two slash note.
And then eventually we want the number that comes here to be dynamic.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves for now.
We can go ahead and hard code a number just to test things out.
Now in my case, I'm going to hard code this to one thirty seven because I know that's my ID for math
lecture number one.
But in your case you're going to need to use a different number in your WordPress installation.
Your first note post almost certainly has a different ID.
So in order to find the number of your first note post, just go to this rest API, you, R-AL, JSON,
WP, V to note and then just grab the first ID number that you see right here.
Cool.
So for now, let's just hard code this.
I will say one thirty seven.
OK, we've already specified that this is a delete request.
Now let's fill out the success and error functions, so let's get rid of this X and just create an anonymous
in line function.
We can actually create an X six arrow function with parentheses, equal sign greater than curly brackets
within the curly brackets.
I like to dropdown and if the request is successful, let's just log out to the console.
So console dot log and let's say congrats.
And also right below that, let's also log out the WordPress server response.
So console log response.
And in order to log out the server response, we need to pass this function that as a parameter.
So within these parentheses, just say a response, OK?
And let's do something very similar for our error function.
So if the request fails, let's get rid of the X and include in S6 Arrow function, then the curly brackets
dropdown.
And I'm just going to paste these two lines, copy and paste instead of congrats.
I will say sorry.
And within these parentheses, be sure to include a parameter name.
OK, so now whether our request succeeds or fails, either way in the developer console, we should
see a custom message and then the official response from WordPress.
So let's go ahead and save this.
And then over on the front end, let's be sure to open up our developer console.
So click anywhere and choose, inspect and then click on the console tab.
OK, now if I click the delete button and check the console, we see several things.
So first of all, a big red error message that says unauthorized then Arkush.
I'm sorry, message, and then this is the official response from WordPress, so you can click on that
to expand it so we can see these different messages.
Sorry you are not allowed to delete this post.
And down here we just see unauthorized.
Now, even though our request clearly failed and we see all of these different error messages, we should
actually be happy because if what we just attempted actually worked, that would mean WordPress is incredibly
insecure and it would mean that anyone with an Internet connection could delete any piece of content
on any WordPress website.
So if we want to be able to delete a post, we need to prove to WordPress that we are actually logged
in and that we have permission to do that.
And the way that we do that, if we jump back to our JavaScript, is when we send out the oral request,
we want to include with it a little piece of secret data called a n n stands for a number used once
or no once.
Now, whenever you successfully log in to your WordPress account, WordPress can generate a knot's for
you.
So let me show you how to set this up.
Let's dive into our functions, BHP file and let's scroll down until we find our function that is named
university files.
And towards the bottom of this function, we've used something named WP Localize Script.
Now, we've already used this once to generate our root you rl that you can find if you view the source
for the page.
So check this out.
I just want to generate another property.
So at the end of this line, let's include a comma and we could make up whatever name we want, but
let's just say N and set it to equal.
And then there's a WordPress function named WP create Norns and within the parentheses let's just say
WP rest.
So with this in place now, whenever we successfully log in to WordPress, if we check the view source
of the page, there will be a secret property named Norns that equals a randomly generated number that
WordPress creates just for our user session.
So let's save this.
And if we jump back to the front end and if you refresh and then view the page source, if you search
for university data now, in addition to Route You URL, we also have this property named Norns and
there's my randomly generated number.
So we just need to pass this number along within our JavaScript and then WordPress can trust us.
So back in our JavaScript, within the Ajax method, maybe right before the Eurail property, let's
add a new line and say before send and let's set this to equal an arrow function.
So parentheses equal greater than curly brackets.
OK, now within the parentheses, we can make up a parameter name.
I'm going to say x H bar and then within the function we can target that parameter to modify the request
that J query is going to send out.
All modern browsers have a method named set request header and this is how you can pass along a little
bit of extra information with your request.
Now the first argument needs to perfectly match what WordPress is going to be on the lookout for, and
that is x dash WP Dash n WordPress will be looking for this exact name and then we just say comma and
then we just pass it.
The secret number.
So university data dot n right.
That's the property that we just added to the HTML of our page.
OK, and before I save this, I just noticed a typo after the closing curly bracket for before send
right here.
You want to be sure to include a comma.
OK, so if I save that and then refresh and try to click delete again.
Now if I check the console we see congratulations.
And then WordPress responds with information about the post that we deleted.
Now obviously we didn't tell our JavaScript to remove that from the page.
But if you refresh the page manually, we see that my math lecture note is gone.
Cool.
Now, that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we will adjust our UI so that it actually makes sense, right.
So that if you successfully delete a post, it should visually remove that from the page in real time,
like a nice single page application.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.